---
title: Status Values
menu_icon: fas fa-feather
---
# <i class="fas fa-feather"></i> Status Values

Status Values are the base values from which the basics for all ingame calculations are performed.
There are four main types of values: **Base Values**, **Status Valus**, **Condition Values** and **Effort Values**. The
**Status Based Values (SBV)** play a special role.

The sophisticated status system describes the current state of an bestia (or simply any living entity) and does not
strictly apply only to biological entities. The status system is important to calculate all battle related effects
in the game.

The status system knows the following different attributes. These attributes are directly used to calculate the gameplay
effects like battle outcomes or skill usages.

Status values are calculated like so:

```kotlin
str = (baseStr * 2 + ivStr + effStr / 4) * level / 100 + 5
```

The caluclation differs for mana and HP calculation thought:

```kotlin
maxHp = baseHp * 2 + ivHp + effHp / 4 * level / 100 + 10 + level
maxMana = baseMana * 2 + ivMana + effMana / 4 * level / 100 + 10  + level * 2
```

## Intelligence (INT)

* Main influence value for magic domain related effects and power/damage of magic based attacks and skills.
* Increases the duration of magical effects from the player (buffs, skills, etc)
* Increases the total amount of available mana

## Willpower (WIL)

* Increases resistance against enemy spells and magic effects.
* Increases mana regeneration over time
* Increases the duration of magic effects from the player
* Reduces cast duration of spells
* Increases slightly the stamina regeneration
* Increases slightly the total amount of stamina

## Strength (STR)

* Increases damage of physical attacks (and slightly the damage of distance attacks)
* Increases carry capacity
* Increases the maximum HP amount slightly
* Increases the maximum stamina amount slightly

## Vitality (VIT)

* Reduces the damage of physical attacks
* Increases the HP regeneration over time
* Increases the maximum amount of HP
* Increases the stamina regeneration
* Increases the maximim amount of stamina

## Dexterity (DEX)

* Increases the hitchance of physical based attacks
* Increases the probability of a critical hit
* Increases the damage of a distance attack

## Agility (AGI)

* Increases the attack rate
* Increases the walking speed
* Increases the dodge chance (flee rate) for physical attacks (melee and distance)

## Condition Values

The Condition Values resemble the current condition of a entity.

### Stamina (STA)

* If stamina drops to low the walkspeed of the Bestia decreases
  * From 30% stamina to 0% stamina the walkspeed linearly decreases by 50%.
* It gives resistance against environmental factors
* A stamina below 10% stops the mana and HP generation
* A stamina below 5% leads to a slow HP drop over time
  * 0.3% of max HP loss every tick (leads to death in about 8h real time)
* Stamina can be regenerated by resting in a safe spot or by using items

### HP

* HP is the life energy of a Bestia or entity. If the HP reaches 0 the Bestia is killed

### Mana

* Mana is the energy needed to cast spells or abilities. The more mana the Bestia has the more
  or bigger spells she can cast

## Effort Values

Upon level up of a Bestia it gains **Gain Points** which the player is free to distribute into his **Effort Values**
to any of the status values.

These values are gained upon leveling up the Bestia and can freely assigned by the player as soon as he has some points
to spend. However once spend these points are fixed and connot re-distributed anymore.

The gain of effort values for a entity is:

```kotlin
effGain = 4 + floor(reachedLevel / 10)
```

Upon leveling up the status values player needs to invest:

```kotlin
effGainNeeded = floor(0.25 * nextEffValue) * 2
```

## Status Based Values

The status based values (**SBVs**) are important numbers used throughout the system to determine for example the walk
speed or attack speed of an entity.

## Individual Values

The individual value **IVs** are generated when the Bestia spawns and makes this somewhat random. Its possible to find
better or worst Bestia. By breeding Bestia this IVs are subject to manipulation by the player and it is possible to make
stronger Bestia in a controlled way.

## Base Values

Every Bestia has Base Values upon which the status values are calculated. With setting these  values some
baseline for status values can be controlled from the designer. Every status has its designated base value.

For other non Bestia based entities like items or buildings etc. base values are usually generated via a ruleset.

## Effective Status Values

The effective status values a calculated by the base values and effort values of each bestia. These values are set when
the entity is instanced. For other non bestia entities like non living objects or NPC the status values might just get
assigned by a simpler mechanism.

Usually the equipment or buffs (status effects) will alter the status points directly or indirectly. Both alterations
are called status effects and might be semi-permanent (as long as the equip is worn) or temporarily (when the buff
runs out).

The effective status values are taken into account when game calculations are performed.

## Effective Status Value Calculation

TBD

## Status Based Values Calculation

TBD

## Experience

The primary way to gain experience in the game is by fighting enemy Bestias. But there is also experience for more pacifistic
players to gain through the use of skills. However, in order to give players no advantage over fighting players, the
experience is calculated by skills in another pool and can only be used

The experience gained by job is reduced the higher the job level count
of the players rises by a factor.

```kotlin
reductionFactor = exp(jobLevel/10)^-1
```

Only activly used jobs will create experience.

By each level up results in a certain amount of Effort Points which can be distributed by the player over all status points
as desired.

Furthermore each level up below level 50 results in one point for a skill up. At level 50 and above the number of
skill up points decreases slowly. So you may need several level ups to get another skill up.